hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee and this is our view of the LG gran
so LG even making notebooks and
ultrabooks for quite a few years but
this is the first time they've pushed
one into North America
this one's really thin it's really light
and it's geared toward someone who
really wants like the true Ultrabook
experience here's my review this laptop
comes in a few different models and
screen sizes but here are the specs of
the unit I have it's a Broadwell Core i5
running at 2.2 gigahertz the 1080p IPS
panel integrated HD 5500 graphics eight
gigs of RAM 128 gigs of storage and the
current retail price is just under $1000
now there's another model equipped with
an i7 that's quite a bit more expensive
and there's also a 13 inch model which
comes in slightly cheaper but I think
this one here is the one that gives you
the best overall value when you open it
up there's some protective foam on the
top lid and you get the laptop along
with a charger and an Ethernet dongle
the top surface has a texture that's
very similar to a macbook with that
slightly textured finish and the bottom
surface has a similar texture but the
material feels a little more plastic II
will come back to that the screen has a
little bit of flex to it it's not super
Wiggly or anything but I wish it was a
little more sturdier the chassis in the
keyboard area have a little less flex
but it's still not as solid as I'd like
the hinge mechanism seems sturdy enough
it's covered in plastic but it's solid
and how the bottom panel is something
else it's really soft and flexible you
can kind of see how much the panel is
distorting as I move my finger around
and I'm not sure what it's made of
I mean LG says that they use carbon
magnesium and lithium magnesium
somewhere in these notebooks which
sounds really space-aged and cool but
build quality isn't top-tier on this
thing going around the device on the
left side we have the power socket a USB
3.0 port full size HDMI port which is
kind of cool to see on a thin device
like this and indicator lights on the
right side we have a mic a micro SD slot
that fits cards in pretty flush a micro
USB port a second USB 3 port and a lock
slot the micro USB port is for that
Ethernet dongle base
now I have mixed feelings about this
microSD I mean it's great for
transferring files if you have a
smartphone that can take microSD cards
but if you're a video or photo editor
that uses regular sized SD cards you got
to get an adapter and that's kind of a
bummer the 40 watt AC adapter is small
but the plug is pretty thin and narrow
and I feel like it would be easy to bend
or damage it so you want to be careful
with that the LG Graham is thin it's as
thin as a macbook air and thinner than
an AC su x-303
so the length and the width of all three
of these ultrabooks are very similar you
can make like a perfect stack with them
but the Graham has a 14 inch screen
instead of a 13 inch screen like the
other two and it's a lot lighter the
keyboard types pretty well in terms of
its space it's not bad and the arrow
keys are positioned well the backspace
key is a little shorter than what you
might be used to and the keys aren't
super clicky but overall it's pretty
good my only real complaint though is
the lack of backlighting I personally
don't need it but I know a lot of people
depend on backlighting and on a device
at this price point you kind of expect
it the trackpad is okay the texture is
great buttons click well but again it's
got tracking issues I mean every once in
a while you get a stutter or some
skipping it's just like that standard
Windows trackpad the screen is a 1080p
IPS panel it's a glossy screen but it
isn't a touchscreen it's pretty bright
and viewing angles are good color
accuracy is okay we're getting 85% srgb
and 63% of Adobe RGB it's also
reasonably well calibrated out of the
box maybe a touch green it's not the
best screen I've seen on an ultrabook
but it's still very respectable now keep
in mind that it is a 14 inch screen in
the footprint of a traditional 13-inch
ultrabook so that extra inch is nice and
it comes from these really narrow side
bezels which measure in at around 7
millimeters the bezel on the top is a
little thicker but it has a webcam
shaped like a little gear which is cool
and this is what it looks like
the speakers are small and they fired
downwards which I never liked but they
don't sound bad and they get moderately
loud here's what they sound like the
Graham idols really quietly like less
than 20 decibels on Idol when running on
battery but even under load it's
surprisingly quiet for device running a
core i5 it measures in at low to mid 20s
which is really nice but with the
silence comes heat there is a fan and
the exhaust vent is in the hinge but
because that fan is so slow and quiet it
gets really hot it was so hot that I was
convinced that I could cook an egg on it
and so I tried and I failed and removing
it was a pain in the butt so I basically
egged my laptop for this video
now using the Fleur we can see it goes
over 115 degrees but apparently I needed
130 degrees to cook the egg so they're
really quiet noise signature of this
device has its trade-offs I'm not really
concerned about the device being damaged
because these Broadwell chips can handle
way hotter temperatures but with extra
heat you get CPU throttling and that's
never good it's running an SSD and read
speeds are okay we're getting over 500
Meg's per second but write speeds are
pretty slow at 150 megabytes per second
you won't really notice slow write
speeds for most regular stuff like media
consumption light work and gaming but
video edits are pretty sluggish I'd stay
away from 4k edits on this machine and
even 1080p edits aren't particularly
smooth usable but they're not great
Photoshop runs well for some light photo
editing alright let's talk about games
it's running an HD 5500 which is
noticeably slower than the graphics chip
on the MacBook Air that runs an HD 6000
and it's also much slower than the asus
ux305 am so moderately demanding games
like dota 2 here's of the storm we're
getting less than 20 frames per second
at native res and about 25 to 30 frames
per second at 720p with everything on
medium so it's playable and you can get
better frame rates if you crank
everything down but it's not a really
enjoyable experience for even moderately
demanding games less demanding games
like counter-strike perform a little
better I mean if you turn everything off
get around 45 frames per second at 720p
but if gaming performance is important
to you I probably pass on this Ultrabook
it's not for you battery life is short
this thing has a 35 watt hour battery
they claim seven and a half hours at
well I didn't get anywhere close regular
use of just browsing the web and doing
some work got me around four and a half
hours with screen at sixty percent
brightness watching movies off the drive
was closer to five hours and battery
life while gaming was a little less than
two hours
okay recap the LG Graham it's a really
light ultra buck coming in at 980 grams
1080p non-touchscreen that gets pretty
bright doesn't have the best color range
keyboard is spacious and feels pretty
good to type on but it's not backlit the
trackpad is well a standard windows
trackpad not amazing inside we have an
i5 Broadwell with integrated graphics
that's a strong performer for regular
Ultrabook use but it struggles with more
intensive stuff like gaming and video
edits it has eight gigs of RAM which is
planning for basically anything you do
on this thing 128 gigs of solid-state
storage that isn't very fast but it's
sufficient for normal use two down
firing speakers that sound decent a
small battery that gets you four to
maybe five hours of battery life and all
of this is cooled by a very quiet but
very slow fan that unfortunately keeps
things pretty damn hot there's a lot of
stuff I like about the LG Graham it's
thin it's really light and the hardware
components they chose are well-suited
for like the average ultrabook consumer
it's not for everyone some people are
going to want faster graphics cards or
faster storage but they did a really
good job trying to hit like everyone's
needs two things bugging though the
first thing thermal management I think
they did not a great job with it they
could have given us a bigger fan or a
better fan or just a better heatsink it
gets hot like really hot that concerns
me
the second thing is the build quality I
know they use carbon magnesium and
lithium magnesium or so they say but the
whole device doesn't feel super solid
especially that bottom panel now the
pricing of it I would consider it
appropriately priced I mean you're
paying a bit of a premium to hit that
really lightweight but for the Ultrabook
market I think it's a fair price
that's the end of the review hope you
guys liked it give me some thumbs if you
did subs have you loved it it's been
nice I'll see you guys next time
you